Create start-workspace-from-url.adoc (#1)
benoitf/asciidoc-guides: start-workspace-from-url.adoc

:prod-short: Che

= Starting a workspace from an URL

> After using getting started examples from the Dashboard users want to create workspaces from existing Git repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After using the getting started examples from the Dashboard, users will want to create workspaces from existing Git repositories.
```

> Create workspaces from a Git repository by entering a custom URL on the {prod-short} dashboard page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a workspace from a Git repository by entering a custom URL on the {prod-short} dashboard page.
```

Reviewer: ... assuming that only one workspace is created by entering a custom URL on the dashboard page.

Author: @max-cx by default there is a new workspace created on every click (with an option we can disable that)

Reviewer: @benoitf thank you. I'll try doing this myself as the user then and will update this thread.

== Short URL syntax

> Historically, the URL syntax was starting with `/f/?url=` like `https://my-che-server/f/?url=https://github.com/my/repository` but it was complex and error prone. While this syntax is still supported, short syntax should be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the earlier versions of {prod-short}, the {prod-short} URL syntax began with `/f/?url=`, for example `https://my-che-server/f/?url=https://github.com/my/repository`, but it was complex and error prone. While that syntax is still supported, short syntax should be used.
```

Author: we should use {prod-short} instead of  `Che`  no ?

Author: I've edited your suggestion to replace Che by {prod-short}

> Start a workspace from a GitHub, Gitlab or Bitbucket repository by adding a `#` character to the {prod-short} URL suffixed by the repository link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start a workspace with a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket repository by using the {prod-short} URL prepended with a `#` character and appended with the repository link.
```

> Start a workspace with a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket repository by using the {prod-short} URL prepended with a `#` character and appended with the repository link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start a workspace with a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket repository by using the {prod-short} URL prepended with a `#` character and appended with the repository link. Using the example of Eclipse Che hosted by Red Hat: link:https://workspaces.openshift.com#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server[].
```

> Example using Eclipse Che hosted by Red Hat: link:https://workspaces.openshift.com#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the example of Eclipse Che hosted by Red Hat: link:https://workspaces.openshift.com#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server[]
```

> Using the example of Eclipse Che hosted by Red Hat: link:https://workspaces.openshift.com#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server[]
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> {prod-short} start a workspace and clone the repository `https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server` using the default branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{prod-short} starts a workspace and clones the repository `https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server`.
```

Reviewer: I'll move the branch-level info over here from the other section.

:prod-short: Che

= Starting a workspace from an URL

After using the getting started examples from the Dashboard, users will want to create workspaces from existing Git repositories.
Create a workspace from a Git repository by entering a custom URL on the {prod-short} dashboard page.

> == Short URL syntax
> 
> In the earlier versions of {prod-short}, the {prod-short} URL syntax began with `/f/?url=`, for example `https://my-che-server/f/?url=https://github.com/my/repository`, but it was complex and error prone. While that syntax is still supported, short syntax should be used.
> 
> Start a workspace with a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket repository by using the {prod-short} URL prepended with a `#` character and appended with the repository link. Using the example of Eclipse Che hosted by Red Hat: link:https://workspaces.openshift.com#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server[].
> 
> {prod-short} starts a workspace and clones the repository `https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server`.
> 
> {prod-short} will search for a `.devfile.yaml` or `devfile.yaml` file in the given repository. The devfile describe the containers and commands to use for that project. Omitting that file will result in a default container. The default container provides different languages (including Java, Node.js, Python, PHP, Golang, etc) and tools (including `curl`, `jq`, `yq`, etc).
> 
> Devfile information: https://devfile.io/[devfile specification]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Starting a workspace by entering a URL in your internet browser

After using the getting started examples from the Dashboard, users will want to create workspaces containing workspace clones of existing Git repositories.
Create a workspace with a workspace clone of a Git repository by entering a custom URL on the {prod-short} dashboard page.

== Short URL syntax for cloning hosted git repositories

In the earlier versions of {prod-short}, the {prod-short} URL syntax began with `/f/?url=`, for example `https://my-che-server/f/?url=https://github.com/my/repository`, but it was complex and error prone. While that syntax is still supported, short syntax should be used as follows:

To start a workspace with a workspace clone of a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket repository, go to your browser and enter the {prod-short} URL prepended with a `#` character and appended with the repository link. Using the example of Eclipse Che hosted by Red Hat: link:https://workspaces.openshift.com#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server[].

For GitHub:

* To clone the default branch on GitHub to the starting workspace: `#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry`

* To clone a specified branch on GitHub to the starting workspace: `#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/tree/_<branch-name>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/tree/7.39.x`

* To clone the branch of a pull request on GitHub to the starting workspace: `#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/pull/_<pull-request-id>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/pull/1097`

For GitLab:

* To clone the default branch on GitLab to the starting workspace: `#https://gitlab.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_`

* To clone a specified branch on GitLab to the starting workspace: `#https://gitlab.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/-/tree/_<branch>_`

////
Examples of GitLab URLs:
https://gitlab.com/doctormo
https://gitlab.com/nathanal/inkscape/-/tree/inkscape1902
https://gitlab.com/inkscape/inkscape/-/merge_requests/3705
////

{prod-short} then starts a workspace and clones the repository `\https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server`.

{prod-short} the searches for a `.devfile.yaml` or `devfile.yaml` file in the given repository. The devfile describes the containers and commands to use for that project. Omitting this file will result in a default container. The default container provides different languages (including Java, Node.js, Python, PHP, Golang, etc) and tools (including `curl`, `jq`, `yq`, etc).

Devfile information: https://devfile.io/[devfile specification]
```

> Devfile information: https://devfile.io/[devfile specification]

Reviewer: My suggestion for `= Starting a workspace by entering a URL in your internet browser` is most likely wrong in the text, but can a user just paste a URL into their browser (without going through the dashboard)?

Author: yes you don't need to open dashboard first if you know where che is deployed

for example I can type in my browser https://workspaces.openshift.com#https://github.com/eclipse/che directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Short URL syntax for cloning hosted git repositories

In the earlier versions of {prod-short}, the {prod-short} URL syntax began with `/f/?url=`, for example `https://my-che-server/f/?url=https://github.com/my/repository`, but it was complex and error-prone. While that syntax is still supported, short syntax should be used as follows:

To start a workspace with a clone of a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket repository, go to your browser's address bar and enter the {prod-short} URL, prepended with a `#` character and appended with the repository link. Using the example of Eclipse Che hosted by Red Hat: link:https://workspaces.openshift.com#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server[].

Then {prod-short} starts a workspace and clones the repository `\https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server`.

{prod-short} also searches for a `.devfile.yaml` or `devfile.yaml` file in the given repository. The devfile describes the containers and commands to use for that project. Omitting this file will result in a default container. The default container provides different languages (including Java, Node.js, Python, PHP, Golang, etc) and tools (including `curl`, `jq`, `yq`, etc).

Devfile information: https://devfile.io/[devfile specification]

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== URL syntax by Git provider

URL syntax for cloning GitHub repositories to the starting workspace:

* To clone the default branch on GitHub to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry`

* To clone a specified branch on GitHub to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/tree/_<branch-name>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/tree/7.39.x`

* To clone the branch of a pull request on GitHub to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/pull/_<pull-request-id>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/pull/1097`

URL syntax for cloning GitLab repositories:

* To clone the default branch on GitLab to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://gitlab.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_`

* To clone a specified branch on GitLab to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://gitlab.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/-/tree/_<branch>_`

```

Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml`

Short name for the parameter `devfilePath` exists: `df`
Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?df=mydevfile.yaml`

== Policy to create or reuse an existing workspace

Each time a user click on a {prod-short} URL link, it's possible to define to create a fresh workspace or reuse a previous one.
The default policy is `perClick` meaning that {prod-short} creates a workspace on every click.

{prod-short} supports the following options for `policies.create` query parameter:

* `perclick`:  The default strategy, which creates a fresh workspace on every click.

* `peruser`: Create the workspace if it is not yet existing or open the previous one.

Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?policies.create=peruser` to create or reopen the workspace created from this repository.

== Support of devfiles

{prod-short} uses the {devworkspace} engine that targets devfiles v2 with `schemaVersion: 2.1.0`.
Use of devfile v1 is deprecated. Under the hood, https://github.com/che-incubator/devfile-converter[converter library] converts devfiles v1 to devfiles v2.

> == Specific options from various Git providers
> 
> === Using `github.com` provider:
> 
> ==== Using the default branch:
> 
> `#https://github.com/<org>/<repository-name>` will use the default branch configured for the repository and not for example search for`main`
> 
> ==== From a custom branch:
> https://github.com/<org>/<repository-name>/tree/<branch-name> will use the provided branch rather than the default one. example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/tree/7.39.x`
> 
> ==== From a pull request:
> https://github.com/<org>/<repository-name>/pull/<pull-request-id> to open the branch of the given pull request. example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/pull/1097`
> 
> 
> === Using `gitlab` provider:
> 
> ==== Using the default branch:
> 
> `#https://gitlab.com/<org>/<repository-name>` will use the default branch.
> 
> ==== With a custom branch:
> `#https://gitlab.com/<org>/<user>/-/tree/<branch-name>`` will use the provided branch rather than the default one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: `the searches`  should be `then`
`To start a workspace with a workspace clone of a GitHub` I'm unsure of the 'workspace clone' wording also it's repeating workspace again. --> `To start a workspace cloning a GitHub repository`

Reviewer: @benoitf, you're right. The word `workspace` is overused already.

> :prod-short: Che

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:prod: Eclipse Che
```

> :prod-short: Che

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:prod: Eclipse Che
```

= Starting a workspace by entering a URL

As a user, you can create a workspace containing a clone of a Git repository by entering a custom URL in the address bar of your browser.

> As a user, you can also create a workspace containing a clone of a Git repository by entering the URL of the Git repository on the {prod-short} dashboard page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a user, you can also create a workspace containing a clone of a Git repository by entering the URL of the Git repository on the {prod} dashboard page.
```

== Short URL syntax for cloning hosted git repositories

> In the earlier versions of {prod-short}, the {prod-short} URL syntax began with `/f/?url=`, for example `https://my-che-server/f/?url=https://github.com/my/repository`, but it was complex and error-prone. While that syntax is still supported, short syntax should be used as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the earlier versions of {prod}, the {prod} URL syntax began with `/f/?url=`, for example `https://my-che-server/f/?url=https://github.com/my/repository`, but it was complex and error-prone. While that syntax is still supported, short syntax should be used as follows:
```

== Short URL syntax for cloning hosted git repositories

> In the earlier versions of {prod}, the {prod-short} URL syntax began with `/f/?url=`, for example `https://{prod-url}/f/?url=https://github.com/my/repository`, but it was complex and error-prone. While that syntax is still supported, short syntax should be used as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the earlier versions of {prod}, the {prod-short} URL syntax began with `/f/?url=`, for example `{prod-url}/f/?url=https://github.com/my/repository`, but it was complex and error-prone. While that syntax is still supported, short syntax should be used as follows:
```

> Then {prod-short} starts a workspace and clones the repository `\https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then {prod} starts a workspace and clones the repository `\https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server`.
```

> {prod-short} also searches for a `.devfile.yaml` or `devfile.yaml` file in the given repository. The devfile describes the containers and commands to use for that project. Omitting this file will result in a default container. The default container provides different languages (including Java, Node.js, Python, PHP, Golang, etc) and tools (including `curl`, `jq`, `yq`, etc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{prod} also searches for a `.devfile.yaml` or `devfile.yaml` file in the given repository. The devfile describes the containers and commands to use for that project. Omitting this file will result in a default container. The default container provides different languages (including Java, Node.js, Python, PHP, Golang, etc) and tools (including `curl`, `jq`, `yq`, etc).
```

+
`#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/tree/_<branch-name>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/tree/7.39.x`

* To clone the branch of a pull request on GitHub to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/pull/_<pull-request-id>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/pull/1097`

URL syntax for cloning GitLab-hosted repositories:

* To clone the default branch on GitLab to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://gitlab.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_`

* To clone a specified branch on GitLab to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://gitlab.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/-/tree/_<branch>_`

== Using a different editor or `IDE`

The default IDE is a property of {prod}, and the default value is `eclipse/che-theia/latest`. See the docs for the link:https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/che-7/installation-guide/advanced-configuration-options-for-the-che-server-component/#devfile-defaults[Devfile defaults].

Overriding the default editor is possible with the `?che-editor=<editor-id>` parameter. The `editor-id` comes from the identifier of the IDE in the plug-in registry.

> * Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=eclipse/che-theia/next` to use the next version of Theia (build after each commit) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Example: `{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=eclipse/che-theia/next` to use the next version of Theia (build after each commit) 
```

Some of IDE keys are `eclipse/che-theia/latest`, `eclipse/che-theia/next`, `che-incubator/intellij-community/latest`, `che-incubator/pycharm/latest` or `che-incubator/che-code/insiders`

The parameter `?che-editor` accepts a link to the devfile hosted on a public server (with Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) enabled).

> * Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=https://eclipse-che.github.io/che-plugin-registry/main/v3/plugins/che-incubator/che-code/insiders/devfile.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Example: `{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=https://eclipse-che.github.io/che-plugin-registry/main/v3/plugins/che-incubator/che-code/insiders/devfile.yaml`
```

== Using a different devfile file from the repository

If the devfile file name is different from the default search pattern, which is `.devfile.yaml` or `devfile.yaml`, it is possible to override that name.

> Use the parameter `?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml` at the end of `https://{prod-url}#__<git_repository_url>__`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the parameter `?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml` at the end of `{prod-url}#__<git_repository_url>__`.
```

> * Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Example: `{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml`
```

The short name for the `devfilePath` parameter is `df`.

> * Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?df=mydevfile.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Example: `{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?df=mydevfile.yaml`
```

Short name for the parameter `devfilePath` exists: `df`
Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?df=mydevfile.yaml`

== Policy to create or reuse an existing workspace

> Clicks on a {prod-short} URL link create a fresh workspace when no previous matching workspace exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicks on a {prod} URL link create a fresh workspace when no previous matching workspace exists.
```

> With the DevWorkspace Engine enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With {devworkspace} Operator enabled:
```

> == Policy to create or reuse an existing workspace
> 
> Clicks on a {prod-short} URL link create a fresh workspace when no previous matching workspace exists.
> 
> Use `?new` at the end of the URL to always create a fresh workspace on every click
> 
> Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?new` to create a new workspace from this repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= URL syntax for workspace names

With the DevWorkspace Engine enabled:

If you enter a URL such as `https://che#http://github.com/foo/bar` and you don’t have any workspace named `bar`, {prod} creates a workspace named `bar` and clones the GitHub repository.

Each time you enter a URL such as `https://che#http://github.com/foo/bar` again, {prod} reopens the previously created workspace `bar`. (If you deleted the previously created `bar` workspace, entering `https://che#http://github.com/foo/bar` results in {prod} creating another workspace named `bar`.)

To create another workspace each time you enter the same URL, enter the URL appended with `?new` in the URL format `https://che#http://github.com/foo/bar?new`. Even if you already have a workspace named `bar`, each time you enter such URL, {prod} will create another, sequentially named workspace (example: `bar-abcde`).
```

> If you enter a URL such as `https://{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar` and you don’t have any workspace named `bar`, {prod} creates a workspace named `bar` and clones the GitHub repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you enter a URL such as `{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar` and you don’t have any workspace named `bar`, {prod} creates a workspace named `bar` and clones the GitHub repository.
```

== Support of devfiles

> {prod-short} uses the {devworkspace} engine that targets devfiles v2 with `schemaVersion: 2.1.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{prod} uses the {devworkspace} engine that targets devfiles v2 with `schemaVersion: 2.1.0`.
```

> Each time you enter a URL such as `https://{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar` again, {prod} reopens the previously created workspace `bar`. (If you deleted the previously created `bar` workspace, entering `https://{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar` results in {prod} creating another workspace named `bar`.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each time you enter a URL such as `{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar` again, {prod} reopens the previously created workspace `bar`. (If you deleted the previously created `bar` workspace, entering `{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar` results in {prod} creating another workspace named `bar`.)
```

> To create another workspace each time you enter the same URL, enter the URL appended with `?new` in the URL format `https://{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar?new`. Even if you already have a workspace named `bar`, each time you enter such URL, {prod} will create another, sequentially named workspace (example: `bar-abcde`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create another workspace each time you enter the same URL, enter the URL appended with `?new` in the URL format `{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar?new`. Even if you already have a workspace named `bar`, each time you enter such URL, {prod} will create another, sequentially named workspace (example: `bar-abcde`).
```

> {prod} uses the {devworkspace} engine that targets devfiles v2 with `schemaVersion: 2.1.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{prod} uses {devworkspace} Operator that targets devfiles v2 with `schemaVersion: 2.1.0`.
```

> :prod: Eclipse Che

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:prod: Eclipse Che
:prod-short: Che
:prod-url:
```

= Starting a workspace by entering a URL

As a user, you can create a workspace containing a clone of a Git repository by entering a custom URL in the address bar of your browser.

As a user, you can also create a workspace containing a clone of a Git repository by entering the URL of the Git repository on the {prod} dashboard page.

== Short URL syntax for cloning hosted git repositories

> In the earlier versions of {prod}, the {prod} URL syntax began with `/f/?url=`, for example `https://my-che-server/f/?url=https://github.com/my/repository`, but it was complex and error-prone. While that syntax is still supported, short syntax should be used as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the earlier versions of {prod}, the {prod-short} URL syntax began with `/f/?url=`, for example `https://{prod-url}/f/?url=https://github.com/my/repository`, but it was complex and error-prone. While that syntax is still supported, short syntax should be used as follows:
```

> To start a workspace with a clone of a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket repository, go to your browser's address bar and enter the {prod} URL, prepended with a `#` character and appended with the repository link. Using the example of Eclipse Che hosted by Red Hat: link:https://workspaces.openshift.com#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start a workspace with a clone of a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket repository, go to your browser's address bar and enter the {prod-short} URL, prepended with a `#` character and appended with the repository link. Using the example of Eclipse Che hosted by Red Hat: link:https://workspaces.openshift.com#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server[].
```

Devfile information: https://devfile.io/[devfile specification]

== URL syntax by Git provider

URL syntax for cloning GitHub-hosted repositories to the starting workspace:

* To clone the default branch on GitHub to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry`

* To clone a specified branch on GitHub to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/tree/_<branch-name>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/tree/7.39.x`

* To clone the branch of a pull request on GitHub to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/pull/_<pull-request-id>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/pull/1097`

URL syntax for cloning GitLab-hosted repositories:

* To clone the default branch on GitLab to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://gitlab.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_`

* To clone a specified branch on GitLab to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://gitlab.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/-/tree/_<branch>_`

== Using a different editor or `IDE`

> The default IDE is a property of {prod-short} and default value is `eclipse/che-theia/latest`
> https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/che-7/installation-guide/advanced-configuration-options-for-the-che-server-component/#devfile-defaults

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default IDE is a property of {prod} and default value is `eclipse/che-theia/latest`. See the docs for the link:https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/che-7/installation-guide/advanced-configuration-options-for-the-che-server-component/#devfile-defaults[Devfile defaults].
```

Overriding the default editor is possible with `?che-editor=<editor-id>` parameter. The `editor-id` comes from the identifier of the IDE on the plug-in registry.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

> Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=eclipse/che-theia/next` to use the next version of Theia (build after each commit) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=eclipse/che-theia/next` to use the next version of Theia (build after each commit) 
```

Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=eclipse/che-theia/next` to use the next version of Theia (build after each commit) 

Some of IDEs keys are `eclipse/che-theia/latest`, `eclipse/che-theia/next`, `che-incubator/intellij-community/latest`, `che-incubator/pycharm/latest` or `che-incubator/che-code/insiders`

The parameter `?che-editor` accepts a link to the devfile hosted on a public server (with Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) enabled).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

> Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=https://eclipse-che.github.io/che-plugin-registry/main/v3/plugins/che-incubator/che-code/insiders/devfile.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=https://eclipse-che.github.io/che-plugin-registry/main/v3/plugins/che-incubator/che-code/insiders/devfile.yaml`
```

Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=https://eclipse-che.github.io/che-plugin-registry/main/v3/plugins/che-incubator/che-code/insiders/devfile.yaml`

== Using a different devfile file from the repository

> If the devfile filename is different from the default search pattern which is `.devfile.yaml` or `devfile.yaml`, it is possible to override that name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the devfile file name is different from the default search pattern, which is `.devfile.yaml` or `devfile.yaml`, it is possible to override that name.
```

Reviewer: I don't understand the clause about `it is possible to override that name` ? Why and how? Just to double-check, is `override` the best word choice here?

> Use the parameter `?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml` at the end of the `https://che-server#url-to-git-repository`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the parameter `?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml` at the end of `https://che-server#url-to-git-repository`.
```

Reviewer: This sentence is not clear to me. How can I use this parameter at the end of that?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

> Use the parameter `?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml` at the end of `https://che-server#url-to-git-repository`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the parameter `?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml` at the end of `https://{prod-url}#__<git_repository_url>__`.
```

> Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml`
```

Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml`

> Short name for the parameter `devfilePath` exists: `df`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The short name for the parameter `devfilePath` is `df`.
```

> Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?df=mydevfile.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?df=mydevfile.yaml`
```

> Example: `https://che-server#https://github.com/example/foo?df=mydevfile.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?df=mydevfile.yaml`
```

= URL syntax for workspace names

With the DevWorkspace Engine enabled:

> If you enter a URL such as `https://che#http://github.com/foo/bar` and you don’t have any workspace named `bar`, {prod} creates a workspace named `bar` and clones the GitHub repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you enter a URL such as `https://{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar` and you don’t have any workspace named `bar`, {prod} creates a workspace named `bar` and clones the GitHub repository.
```

> Each time you enter a URL such as `https://che#http://github.com/foo/bar` again, {prod} reopens the previously created workspace `bar`. (If you deleted the previously created `bar` workspace, entering `https://che#http://github.com/foo/bar` results in {prod} creating another workspace named `bar`.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each time you enter a URL such as `https://{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar` again, {prod} reopens the previously created workspace `bar`. (If you deleted the previously created `bar` workspace, entering `https://{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar` results in {prod} creating another workspace named `bar`.)
```

> To create another workspace each time you enter the same URL, enter the URL appended with `?new` in the URL format `https://che#http://github.com/foo/bar?new`. Even if you already have a workspace named `bar`, each time you enter such URL, {prod} will create another, sequentially named workspace (example: `bar-abcde`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create another workspace each time you enter the same URL, enter the URL appended with `?new` in the URL format `https://{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar?new`. Even if you already have a workspace named `bar`, each time you enter such URL, {prod} will create another, sequentially named workspace (example: `bar-abcde`).
```

== Support of devfiles

{prod-short} uses the {devworkspace} engine that targets devfiles v2 with `schemaVersion: 2.1.0`.

> Use of devfile v1 is deprecated. Under the hood, https://github.com/che-incubator/devfile-converter[converter library] converts devfiles v1 to devfiles v2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use of devfile v1 is deprecated. Under the hood, the https://github.com/che-incubator/devfile-converter[converter library] converts devfiles v1 to devfiles v2.
```

:prod: Eclipse Che
:prod-short: Che

> :prod-url: https://che-host:che-port

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:prod-url: https://che-host:che-port
:devworkspace: DevWorkspace
```

== Short URL syntax for cloning hosted git repositories

In the earlier versions of {prod}, the {prod-short} URL syntax began with `/f/?url=`, for example `https://{prod-url}/f/?url=https://github.com/my/repository`, but it was complex and error-prone. While that syntax is still supported, short syntax should be used as follows:

To start a workspace with a clone of a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket repository, go to your browser's address bar and enter the {prod-short} URL, prepended with a `#` character and appended with the repository link. Using the example of Eclipse Che hosted by Red Hat: link:https://workspaces.openshift.com#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server[]. Then {prod} starts a workspace and clones the repository, `\https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server` in this example.

{prod} also searches for a `.devfile.yaml` or `devfile.yaml` file in the given repository. The devfile describes the containers and commands to use for that project. Omitting this file will result in a default container, which provides different languages (including Java, Node.js, Python, PHP, Golang, etc) and tools (including `curl`, `jq`, `yq`, etc).

> For more information on devfiles, see the link:https://devfile.io/[devfile specification].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on devfiles, see the link:https://devfile.io/[Devfile Documentation].
```

+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry`

* To clone a specified branch on GitHub to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/tree/_<branch-name>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/tree/7.39.x`

* To clone the branch of a pull request on GitHub to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/pull/_<pull-request-id>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/pull/1097`

URL syntax for cloning GitLab-hosted repositories:

* To clone the default branch on GitLab to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://gitlab.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_`

* To clone a specified branch on GitLab to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://gitlab.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/-/tree/_<branch>_`

== Using a different editor or `IDE`

The default IDE is a property of {prod}, and the default value is `eclipse/che-theia/latest`. See the docs for the link:https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/che-7/installation-guide/advanced-configuration-options-for-the-che-server-component/#devfile-defaults[Devfile defaults].

> Overriding the default editor is possible with `?che-editor=<editor-id>` parameter. The `editor-id` comes from the identifier of the IDE on the plug-in registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overriding the default editor is possible with the `?che-editor=<editor-id>` parameter. The `editor-id` comes from the identifier of the IDE in the plug-in registry.
```

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=eclipse/che-theia/next` to use the next version of Theia (build after each commit) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=eclipse/che-theia/next` to use the next version of Theia (build after each commit) 
```

> Some of IDEs keys are `eclipse/che-theia/latest`, `eclipse/che-theia/next`, `che-incubator/intellij-community/latest`, `che-incubator/pycharm/latest` or `che-incubator/che-code/insiders`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of IDE keys are `eclipse/che-theia/latest`, `eclipse/che-theia/next`, `che-incubator/intellij-community/latest`, `che-incubator/pycharm/latest` or `che-incubator/che-code/insiders`
```

The parameter `?che-editor` accepts a link to the devfile hosted on a public server (with Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) enabled).

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=https://eclipse-che.github.io/che-plugin-registry/main/v3/plugins/che-incubator/che-code/insiders/devfile.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?che-editor=https://eclipse-che.github.io/che-plugin-registry/main/v3/plugins/che-incubator/che-code/insiders/devfile.yaml`
```

== Using a different devfile file from the repository

If the devfile file name is different from the default search pattern, which is `.devfile.yaml` or `devfile.yaml`, it is possible to override that name.

Use the parameter `?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml` at the end of `https://{prod-url}#__<git_repository_url>__`.

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?devfilePath=mydevfile.yaml`
```

> The short name for the parameter `devfilePath` is `df`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The short name for the `devfilePath` parameter is `df`.
```

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?df=mydevfile.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Example: `https://{prod-url}#https://github.com/example/foo?df=mydevfile.yaml`
```

:prod: Eclipse Che
:prod-short: Che

> :prod-url:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:prod-url: https://che-host:che-port
```

> = Starting a workspace from an URL
> 
> After using the getting started examples from the Dashboard, users will want to create workspaces from existing Git repositories.
> Create a workspace from a Git repository by entering a custom URL on the {prod-short} dashboard page.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Starting a workspace by entering a URL

As a user, you can create a workspace containing a clone of a Git repository by entering a custom URL in the address bar of your browser.

As a user, you can also create a workspace containing a clone of a Git repository by entering the URL of the Git repository on the {prod-short} dashboard page.

```

As a user, you can also create a workspace containing a clone of a Git repository by entering the URL of the Git repository on the {prod} dashboard page.

== Short URL syntax for cloning hosted git repositories

In the earlier versions of {prod}, the {prod-short} URL syntax began with `/f/?url=`, for example `https://{prod-url}/f/?url=https://github.com/my/repository`, but it was complex and error-prone. While that syntax is still supported, short syntax should be used as follows:

> To start a workspace with a clone of a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket repository, go to your browser's address bar and enter the {prod-short} URL, prepended with a `#` character and appended with the repository link. Using the example of Eclipse Che hosted by Red Hat: link:https://workspaces.openshift.com#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start a workspace with a clone of a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket repository, go to your browser's address bar and enter the {prod-short} URL, prepended with a `#` character and appended with the repository link. Using the example of Eclipse Che hosted by Red Hat: link:https://workspaces.openshift.com#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server[]. {prod} starts the workspace and clones the repository, `\https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server` in this example.
```

> Then {prod} starts a workspace and clones the repository `\https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Devfile information: https://devfile.io/[devfile specification]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Devfile information: https://devfile.io/[devfile specification]

```

> {prod} also searches for a `.devfile.yaml` or `devfile.yaml` file in the given repository. The devfile describes the containers and commands to use for that project. Omitting this file will result in a default container. The default container provides different languages (including Java, Node.js, Python, PHP, Golang, etc) and tools (including `curl`, `jq`, `yq`, etc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{prod} also searches for a `.devfile.yaml` or `devfile.yaml` file in the given repository. The devfile describes the containers and commands to use for that project. Omitting this file will result in a default container, which provides different languages (including Java, Node.js, Python, PHP, Golang, etc) and tools (including `curl`, `jq`, `yq`, etc).
```

> URL syntax for cloning GitHub repositories to the starting workspace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URL syntax for cloning GitHub-hosted repositories to the starting workspace:
```

> Devfile information: https://devfile.io/[devfile specification]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on devfiles, see the link:https://devfile.io/[devfile specification].
```

* To clone the default branch on GitHub to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry`

* To clone a specified branch on GitHub to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/tree/_<branch-name>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/tree/7.39.x`

* To clone the branch of a pull request on GitHub to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://github.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/pull/_<pull-request-id>_`
+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/pull/1097`

> URL syntax for cloning GitLab repositories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URL syntax for cloning GitLab-hosted repositories:
```

+
Example: `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-plugin-registry/pull/1097`

URL syntax for cloning GitLab-hosted repositories:

* To clone the default branch on GitLab to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://gitlab.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_`

* To clone a specified branch on GitLab to the starting workspace:
+
`#https://gitlab.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/-/tree/_<branch>_`

== Using a different editor or `IDE`

> The default IDE is a property of {prod} and default value is `eclipse/che-theia/latest`. See the docs for the link:https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/che-7/installation-guide/advanced-configuration-options-for-the-che-server-component/#devfile-defaults[Devfile defaults].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default IDE is a property of {prod}, and the default value is `eclipse/che-theia/latest`. See the docs for the link:https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/che-7/installation-guide/advanced-configuration-options-for-the-che-server-component/#devfile-defaults[Devfile defaults].
```
